Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on vector basics and this lecture were to learn how to construct
the vector using the combined function the different rules about constructing a vector and how to use
the names function to assign names to each element in our vector.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio to get started.
All right so here our studio and let's discuss the vector so vector is just a one dimensional array
that can hold character numeric or logical data elements and we create a vector by using the combined
function which is just the letter c of some parentheses.
So let's go ahead and create a couple of factors.
We'll start by creating a vector of numerics.
So I'll call this NBC as the variable name of the assignment operator that little arrow and then use
the combined function which is that C lose some parentheses and then pass an individual elements separated
by a comma.
So let's just say one two three four five separated by commas and notice in my environment I have NVC
and if I call NABC I get back my one dimensional array of those five elements and we can go ahead and
call class on NVC and all return numeric since every element in that vector is a numeric.
Let's go ahead and just see a couple more examples.
Let's say I wanted a vector of characters let's call it C C and we'll just go ahead and pass in USA
.
So you will say s a.
And remember to put in the C here for the combined function in order to actually create that vector
c v c and then we have USA.
All right.
And if I check the class it's going to return character.
Finally let's get a vector of logicals.
So those boolean values and we'll just say T capital T capital F stands for true false LGC is true false
.
And if I check the class of that it's a logical.
All right.
So something to note here is you may be wondering well what if I try to put in different data types
into a vector.
What would the class function return.
So one of the rules about vectors is that you can't mix data types into the elements of that vector
array R will convert the other elements to force everything to be of the same class.
We're going to show you an example of how that would work.
So going to create a variable v and then going to try to combine let's say a logical true with some
numbers 20 and 40.
So if I try doing that they'll notice if I call back that vector V that true has been converted to a
numeric one.
And that is going to be because everything else in that vector was numeric.
So if I call class on the.
Everything has been converted to a numeric.
Likewise if I put in false that false would have been converted to a 0 number.
Let's show you another example of mixing data types.
Let's say I had a character let's say just USA as a string and some numbers 20 31.
You might be thinking well how can USA be converted into a numeric.
Well in this case what are we going to do it's going to convert everything else into a character.
So everything matches the character of USA.
So if I call in class VI now everything in that vector is a character Scotius something to keep in mind
.
You can't mix up these data types elements in a vector.
Later on we'll learn about other data structures such as a list which will allow us to mix and match
different data types into an organizational array.
All right.
With that being said let's go ahead and talk about vector names.
So let's imagine we had a vector of temperature data.
So I go in and clear this make a new vector called temp's and put in some temperature data.
Let's go ahead and say 72 degrees 71 degrees and some other just numbers and good and fill these in
as you see fit 75.
So let's go ahead and make one for each week day so Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
Sunday.
All right.
So these are in Fahrenheit hopefully Celsius will be quite hot.
So we are temps.
And if you notice very cold temps back I have an array of numbers but no names to associate with each
of those temperatures stand for.
So I don't know if the Week starts at Sunday or Monday here and I want to add that information and I
can do that using the names function.
So I'm going to go ahead and say names pass in the vector that I want to name and then apply or assign
a vector of names for the temps vector.
So it's going to started off on Monday so I'll say Tuesday
Thursday
will say Friday Saturday Sunday say the sun makes sure that one last ones in single quotes or double
quotes.
OK so I've been able to assign names to each of these elements if I cold temps.
Now notice the output.
Now each of these temperatures has been assigned a name.
This is going to be really useful because now later on we learn about indexing vectors.
I can use these names to grab data out of the vector.
Something to note is that I don't have to keep rewriting this long vector of weekdays.
I could just assign this vector to let's say a vector called days may go ahead and do that in the press
on the up arrow on my keyboard and let's go ahead instead of using names here.
When I'm going to do is assigned this to a new vector called days.
So never called days.
I have this character vector of day information on Monday Tuesday etc. and then I can do this sort of
operation names temps
and assign days to it in this format.
So usually when you're doing names obviously will get the same result here same vector.
But as I mentioned usually in reading names you're not going to write this whole long vector multiple
times feasible times.
Your first assigned to a vector like so and then use that vector in your name assignment later on.
OK so let's just go over everything we learned just quickly throughout this lecture.
We learn how to use the combine function which is c and if you can go ahead and check out the history
here on this panel.
So we took out the combined function.
Learn how to use it learn that vectors can only take up one data type otherwise other data types will
be converted.
We learn how to use names and learn about the vector assignment.
OK later on we're going to learn much more about how to use and work with vectors in our.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.